The recent establishment of a new constitution in Ecuador recognizes the country as a “plurinational state” in which several different nations coexist within the same country. When Ecuador became post-colonial after 1830, it people failed to unify as one central nation which created several unique identities. Social Mobilization and Late-Industrialization: The Challenge of Building New Institutions And Nations by Rudra Sil and Third World Politics by Paul Cammack, David Pool and William Tordoff elaborate on not just what Ecuador is like today, but analyze the history of colonized countries in order to explain Ecuador’s plurinational state. The presence of “plurinationalism” in Ecuador today can be viewed as a direct result of failed post-colonial state and nation building.
	Ecuadorian President Rafael Correa defines plurinationalism as, “Recognizing the different peoples, cultures, and world views that exist (within the Ecuadorian state) and for all public policies such as education, health and housing, to recognize the plurinational dimension” (Lucas 2008). The indigenous people make up roughly one third of Ecuador’s current population and span across 11 different nationalities. A poor state and nation construction after its liberation is to be held responsible for such a substantial division amongst Ecuador’s culture. Colonization in Latin America created separation between the indigenous people through oppression and a dominant Christian religion which, “rendered ethnicity comparatively weak as a basis for collective identity and resistance to colonial rule” (Cammack Pool Tordoff 1988,  p. 33). Due to the lack of ethnic identity and failure to assimilate to the culture of the colonizers, the Ecuadorian people began to separate into several different cultures rather than unite as one nation. While this remains one of the defining features of Ecuador, the theory of social mobilization helps explain just how this cultural divide came to be.			Ecuador's liberation in 1830 gave it the chance to go through the process of modernization. In order to go from a pre-modern to a modern nation, some form of social mobilization needs to take place. Rudra Sil describes the process stating, “Social mobilization only suggests that people are uprooted from their past identities and communities; the concept does not logically predict that these people will automatically evolve into a new polity comprised of modern individuals” (Sil 1997, p. 2). The indigenous people of post-colonial Ecuador remained in isolated cultures, now facing rapidly changing social boundaries and novel political and economic institutions which aided in the further isolation of these groups. Ecuador and other third world countries attempt to modernize at a more rapid pace than modernized countries in Europe and the West in order to catch up and compete with their industrialized economies.  This fast social mobilization gives rise to social conflict between groups that identify with different traditional and contemporary cultural and social ideals (Sil 1997). Social mobilization in Ecuador failed to create a single, strong nation within the modernizing state because the indigenous people held on to their conventional cultural values rather than conform to industrialized standards.
	The division of nationalities in modern day Ecuador stems from the fact that its natives have not adapted to present-day social and economic practices. They mainly occupy rural areas and rely heavily on the agricultural production of goods. “These communities live according to their traditional values, including a system of sharing and exchanging, a form a solidarity that clashes with the individualism of modern society” (Lucas 2008). Cultures that are persistent in the preservation of traditional lifestyles are unable to integrate with those that depend upon an industrialized economy. In order form a sense of unity between the people of Ecuador it is important that they acknowledge the diversity amongst them. For this reason Ecuador legitimately recognizes itself as a “plurinational state”.
	The failure to successfully construct a unified state and nation in its post-colonial era is directly responsible for the plurinationalist state that exists in Ecuador today. Colonization facilitated the separation of indigenous people through oppression and the loss of ethnic identity while at the same time relying much on the production of agricultural goods. Post-colonial Ecuador attempted to modernize quickly by means of social mobilization which further separated cultures by provoking conflict between groups with old and new ideologies. In turn these groups stuck to their roots and did not adapt to today’s modern values resulting in the existence of several nations within the Ecuadorian state.
